hello everyone and welcome to this
week's Stella developer meeting a little
bit earlier than usual but  the reason
bit earlier than usual but the reason
is we have some really exciting we have
a really exciting episode here  we
a really exciting episode here we
have  some of the guys from open sein
have some of the guys from open sein
we are doing this as a followup from the
last session we did  this this time
last session we did this this time
we're going to be a little bit more
technical so  I would like to
technical so I would like to
add the open sing guys from  to our
add the open sing guys from to our
studio welcome guys please  please do
studio welcome guys please please do
a quick introduction of who you are what
you're doing and  yeah let's get
started yeah I can start  yeah thanks
started yeah I can start yeah thanks
for  hosting us Carston yeah really
for hosting us Carston yeah really
excited to to be here  my name is buan
excited to to be here my name is buan
I am  open source  developer at
I am open source developer at
open
zeppin  yeah building together with
zeppin yeah building together with
osun the Stellar contracts
Library  yeah my background  yeah
Library yeah my background yeah
it's
mostly related  in the past to  to
mostly related in the past to to
some evm   development solidity also
some evm development solidity also
some R development so yeah trying to
to bring  the best from   from
to bring the best from from
all the experiences I I
had great welcome thank
you hello everyone it's oen my name may
be hard to pronounce for some so you can
call me o if that's easier for you so
I'm working with OP Zeppelin for about
one and a half years and my
background is more on the the high
performance Computing distributed
systems and cryptography all of these
included I started my blockchain journey
in some startups for layer zero or layer
one if you will and then transitioned
more into po do ecosystem and now I'm
switched to Stell and quite happy with
it great great thank you and welcome to
you too yeah we started this journey a
while ago and the the reason is or the
objective is to make it easier to for
for new developers to to onboard stellar
and to to build to build great Solutions
so where are we now how how far have
we come in implementing  Stellar in in
we come in implementing Stellar in in
open sppin can you just give a really
quick overview of where we are and
what's being worked
on if you want to go you can go yeah
sure yeah so yeah it's been couple
couple months that  we we kicked it
couple months that we we kicked it
off  we are already on our like
off we are already on our like
approaching our second audit meaning
that we are we accomplished our second
milestone and the idea is that we  we
milestone and the idea is that we we
got our work audited on a regular
basis so the the the products the the
tools  we are delivering to
tools we are delivering to
Stellar ecosystem are safe and secure
and   yeah  so so at the moment
and yeah so so at the moment
like we   last month for E Denver we
like we last month for E Denver we
we shipped our first   first
we shipped our first first
first
release  that was  about fible
release that was about fible
tokens and   the PO
tokens and the PO
utility now we are heading to
delivering  the non
delivering the non
funable  Implement non fible token
funable Implement non fible token
tokens
implementation
packed with couple of extensions so
that that suits different  use cases
that that suits different use cases
so and yeah next week we are  kicking
so and yeah next week we are kicking
off the the second audit that will
that will last for another week and and
then we are shipping  the we are
then we are shipping the we are
releasing the next   yeah the next
releasing the next yeah the next
release okay great this is where we are
great so for for those who may not have
followed the the openin initiative or
have just curious what what's what what
we we're doing here  can you maybe
we we're doing here can you maybe
share maybe share the screen just show
an example of what what
the what it looks like like the maybe
the wizard  just really quick give an
the wizard just really quick give an
introduction to like what is it the
developers are experiencing and what is
it the developers can do right
now  yeah sure I can I can
now yeah sure I can I can
showcase  the wizard The Open
showcase the wizard The Open
Zepp Wizard and how it makes super easy
for developers to
to have like a base basic smart contract
at some
custom functionalities  if they're
custom functionalities if they're
needed and  deployed to to testet
needed and deployed to to testet
yeah I I would love to  to do that
yeah I I would love to to do that
yeah I think that would be a great
introduction to to open sa for for new
for new develop yeah sure  so let me
for new develop yeah sure so let me
share my screen
so can you look at my
screen I think it's loading yeah okay so
here it is the the the Wizard so it's
wizard.
open.com  I believe it may be helpful
open.com I believe it may be helpful
to zoom in just one or two more bits to
make it more
readable okay this is this time I think
good what what do you
think yeah it's it's  I I think I
think yeah it's it's I I think I
think we can we can read it now yeah it
looks
good okay so yeah this is  our wizard
good okay so yeah this is our wizard
which the idea of it is like to to
make  life easier if you need to
make life easier if you need to
like to to build up something  quickly
like to to build up something quickly
so  some with some base  some
so some with some base some
basic features you can  use it  yeah
basic features you can use it yeah
you can see we have for different
languages and U
chains
so here at that's Stellar for the
moment we have only fungible but as we
fin once we finish the non fungible
module and get get it  audited it
module and get get it audited it
will be added here similar to so you can
see at for solidity  there are
see at for solidity there are
different  modules for the moment here
different modules for the moment here
we have only F and  thanks to this UI
we have only F and thanks to this UI
you can configure  the Bas the basic
you can configure the Bas the basic
properties of your Tok for example let's
call call it
awesome awesome
token  it's  yeah really basic  so
token it's yeah really basic so
and here we can Define for example if we
want to do some Prem Min  let's say we
want to do some Prem Min let's say we
want to to Mint  1,000 of bit of this
want to to Mint 1,000 of bit of this
token and here there are different  Fe
token and here there are different Fe
Fe that we can add on top of this basic
implementation for example say we want
it to be minable and you see how  the
it to be minable and you see how the
UI gets updated if you want to to add a
burnable functionality meaning to allow
users to burn their tokens they wish so
we can click on that and yeah this is
how our contract looks
like then  let's  deploy it to to
like then let's deploy it to to
test
net  so we are going to  set up  a
net so we are going to set up a
project  with the with the Stell
project with the with the Stell
CLI  so  yeah for those who yeah
yeah we can check basically we can
check at Stellar documentation how to to
install the CLI and   and use it but
install the CLI and and use it but
yeah here we're initializing the  the
yeah here we're initializing the the
project  so here we have we have our
project so here we have we have our
awesome token
contract  yeah  we we need to
contract yeah we we need to
add we need to add the  the
add we need to add the the
dependency  here the recommendation is
dependency here the recommendation is
to use to pin it to a specific version
or
tag  so as the this version 0. one
tag so as the this version 0. one
is the the most recently audited it's
this version that we are going to use
then  we are ready
then we are ready
to like to delete this boiler plate that
was provided by the C and go back to
the wizard UI here
we are copying our
contract going back to the file we are
pasting pasting
it and yeah so we have it we have
everything set up if we like if   we
everything set up if we like if we
need to do some
modifications  we we can  we and we
modifications we we can we and we
know of course what what we are doing we
can go and straight to the
to the codent modified then
we are going to  to build
we are going to to build
this to build this  contract so it is
this to build this contract so it is
done then  the recommendations are to
done then the recommendations are to
also  not only build but also
also not only build but also
to  optimize it
to optimize it
so
there is a special yeah there is a CLI
command for it  so well it's not
there yeah it's so
my target
so here it is we we gained like
something like 1,000 and something bytes
of our optimized version so it is ready
to be deployed
now  just for the record I have like I
now just for the record I have like I
set it up  wallet  from the Stellar
set it up wallet from the Stellar
lab and funded it with some  with some
lab and funded it with some with some
lumens test net lumens and now  we are
lumens test net lumens and now we are
going to deploy to deploy
it  so it was called my
it so it was called my
awesome my awesome token
right we are deploying it  with the
right we are deploying it with the
Alice  with the Alice
Alice with the Alice
key  yeah here is U an address that
key yeah here is U an address that
will be the owner and
the the recipient
let's let's say it will be Alice again
so Alice will re receive the the the
tokens so if everything's
[Music]
fine we should have our contract
so yeah this is fine it gets  it got
so yeah this is fine it gets it got
deployed this at this
address and Alice  received the 1,000
address and Alice received the 1,000
1,000 tokens that we  we
1,000 tokens that we we
yeah we we preed basically and now
yeah you can  interact with this
yeah you can interact with this
contract  either with the CLI or build
contract either with the CLI or build
a  UI  build a UI for it maybe just
a UI build a UI for it maybe just
let you  let demonstrate how  we can
let you let demonstrate how we can
invoke
it
so just to so this is the
contract so yeah it actually it is
stored under token the token Alas and we
going to check  we going to check the
going to check we going to check the
balance of
Alice oh  the balance of
Alice yeah okay so it's working we
checked so the balance  is  correct
checked so the balance is correct
because it's
yeah how
the yeah basically we preed 1,000 with
18 decimals so that's why we see so big
zero so so many zeros and yeah  I
zero so so many zeros and yeah I
guess  this is
guess this is
enough this is great yeah this is great
it
really it really I convince you it's
really easy I mean  of course you have
really easy I mean of course you have
to
be familiar a bit with the Stellar CI
but I think it's a great very intuitive
and user friendly so yeah it's really
easy to to get up to speed with  with
easy to to get up to speed with with
that so yeah yeah yeah I I think this
this  demo showed really how how
this demo showed really how how
simple it is to to to work with and one
thing that I that I appreciate a lot too
is the testing that this goes through on
your end so if if you are implementing
this yourself and maybe you you are
still pretty new to  development on on
still pretty new to development on on
on Stellar  I think just knowing that
on Stellar I think just knowing that
this has been tested thoroughly this is
secure this is safe I think that that
gives me a lot more confidence as a
developer that the products I'm building
that they are also safe for for the
users so I think that's that's something
that you know the convenience of of
using open sein is is is obvious here
it's super easy and simple but I think I
I think for me the knowing that that
this has actually gone through very
serious testing that that that's
something that I would like to at least
put a little bit of Spotlight on  I
put a little bit of Spotlight on I
think  maybe we can see if there's
think maybe we can see if there's
anyone that has any questions  let me
anyone that has any questions let me
see I see Elliot actually one of my team
members he has a question here  he
members he has a question here he
says in the nft contracts are you
implementing the same extensions as the
F tokens or is a different set of
extensions I believe I can take this one
so they are not completely the same
since the standards We are following
are getting differentiated as well so
for nfts it would be enumerable
consecutive minable
burnable and also
claimable but some of these are not
exactly
extensions  but we want to give the
extensions but we want to give the
name of them so that if a person from
other ecosystems comes here and wants to
search for these they will know how they
are implemented or adopted into Stellar
so these five things that I mentioned
will be
covered okay great we have another
question from  JS maxi  it says said
question from JS maxi it says said
we
are sentential developing an R ERC
4626 standard Vault Solution on Stell
San and if that could be integrated into
open sain standard library for soran in
the future I I I don't actually don't
know if that's something we can we can
answer here  I think that's
answer here I think that's
probably is about 46
36 yeah
46 26 yeah yeah yeah yeah it is it is
it is included in the road map down the
yeah  for the next Milestones I'm not
yeah for the next Milestones I'm not
sure if in the in the Milestone 2 or
Milestone three but it is for sure
included in in the road map okay but the
question is they are asking for
collaboration so they are already trying
to build it so yes by the way yes we are
the title of our jobs is open source
so of course any collaboration is more
than welcome please be sure to check out
our contributor guidelines which is the
usual stuff  we have like mainstream
usual stuff we have like mainstream
things there and anybody who wants to
contribute can contribute in fact we do
have three external contributors right
now so the more the merrier great and
this is this is why it's great to have
you guys on here because I was not able
to answer that question you you guys are
the experts on that okay let's see  we
the experts on that okay let's see we
have one question more from Matias
what design considerations were made for
the library considering classic sorban
and How Stella classic assets
work yeah I can I can maybe maybe
partially give an answer and O you're
going to to  to add if I miss anything
going to to to add if I miss anything
yeah so we are trying to
navigate between  like different
navigate between like different
let's say   requirements concerns
let's say requirements concerns
and yeah of course
one of the requirements is to to
make things  compatible with Stellar
make things compatible with Stellar
classic  for the moment  we have
classic for the moment we have
finished with  with the fungible
finished with with the fungible
fungible token implementation that is
like in the  that was audited I
like in the that was audited I
demonstrated and  actually it overlaps
demonstrated and actually it overlaps
by  with many of the features that are
by with many of the features that are
available already  from the sorbon
available already from the sorbon
sbone SDK itself so  on that on that
sbone SDK itself so on that on that
front we haven't done much because yeah
most of the work was already done by the
the  Stellar development foundation
the Stellar development foundation
team  so
team so
yeah for the nft that we are for the
nft part modu that we are working at
right now  yeah there there are some
right now yeah there there are some
there are some discussions about
how  how this compatibility can be
how how this compatibility can be
brought  on the
brought on the
table  there are some ideas that are
table there are some ideas that are
circulating but  yeah trying to to
circulating but yeah trying to to
accommodate also for existing Stellar
developers that are like try to leverage
Stellar classic assets but also for
some other use cases where people need
need some  customizations  that
need some customizations that
can be brought only by  smart
can be brought only by smart
contracts okay
great let's see yeah and I was actually
thinking about this mat was  he was
thinking about this mat was he was
asking on what's on
what's on the the road map what what
is coming next  can you maybe talk a
is coming next can you maybe talk a
little bit about the road
map there will be smart wallets many
other token
standards  some utilities like fix
standards some utilities like fix
Point arithmetic and Merle proofs stuff
like that but  they are
like that but they are
all discussed and we may change the
order Etc depending on the community
feedback and our
priorities okay great yeah actually yeah
actually yeah we are really looking for
like feedback what is what are the
utilities the The Primitives that are
most the mostly like Builders from
Stellar are like  eager to see so yeah
Stellar are like eager to see so yeah
we are definitely looking for  for
we are definitely looking for for
feedback  so that we can Shape Up
feedback so that we can Shape Up
together  the our road
together the our road
map okay great  so we have a question
map okay great so we have a question
also from L again  any highlights or
also from L again any highlights or
low lights you can share about the
Stella sorond architecture compared to
other blockchains since you have work
with other
chains you want me to start buan and
then you can continue okay so
authorization is done in a great way I
will let poan speak more on that but but
I also  admire the way authorization
I also admire the way authorization
and authentication Works in
San my
biggest  admiration comes from the
biggest admiration comes from the
developer experience it's great right
now it's super simple yet super safe and
we also want to and try to do our best
to keep this safety and simplicity in
our
projects I will L it to buan
yeah I'm
also  joining  Al on on this on this
also joining Al on on this on this
front and yeah just to add that
like yeah authorizations
how  how they're handled  like  on
how how they're handled like on
a protocol level actually  relieves
a protocol level actually relieves
a lot of  lot of remove a lot of pain
a lot of lot of remove a lot of pain
points that for example developers from
coming from evm chains are having like
for dealing with
authorizations  actually many of the
authorizations actually many of the
things that are natively supported
and Builders shouldn't care like at all
in other ecosystems like it's additional
overhead of like how to construct your
contract so  they're not too big
contract so they're not too big
they're too complex and here like
Builders can focus on what's the most
important the business logic that is
that is  regarding their their
that is regarding their their
specific application so this is a huge a
huge benefit  other thing that comes
huge benefit other thing that comes
to my mind is for example how  how
to my mind is for example how how
the  how we deal with
the how we deal with
upgradability  in  in soron
upgradability in in soron
it's just a seamless like
a a wine liner compared to  compared
a a wine liner compared to compared
to  for example ethereum where are
to for example ethereum where are
like  dozens of different OB
like dozens of different OB
gradability patterns  with different
gradability patterns with different
tradeoffs  security concerns Etc and
tradeoffs security concerns Etc and
here is just a no-brainer so it's bit a
big thumbs up  about the work that
big thumbs up about the work that
that's done
in the background so yeah okay great
well that was all very positive so happy
to hear that  I think Matias was
to hear that I think Matias was
asking about the soulbound tokens if if
that's possible  is that something
that's possible is that something
that's been cons being considered or
thought about or is that not something
that's been been considered
yet sorry it cut and I couldn't hear
oh  so Matas was asking about Soul
oh so Matas was asking about Soul
bound tokens if that's soul to
yeah  actually it is not something
yeah actually it is not something
that is  planned straight straight
that is planned straight straight
away  but
away but
but yeah I mean with the nfts we are
building the the the the ground for for
for that and  yeah maybe yeah we have
for that and yeah maybe yeah we have
to to see how yeah how this is   how
to to see how yeah how this is how
this can fit in the future Milestone
okay great by the way it is worth to
note that  we are building this for
note that we are building this for
community so if Community wants that we
will for sure do
it
great  have you
great have you
identified  the biggest pain points
identified the biggest pain points
from a developer experience for building
cross Chain
Solutions  this also a question from
yes right now we haven't explored how we
would do cross chain stuff for Stellar
so I for myself am not able to answer
that as of yet maybe in the upcoming
months I will be but maybe buan will
have something to say I don't know yeah
just to add that there there is the AEL
team that are doing some yeah great
great job on that front so if you are
interested in Cross chain  cross chain
interested in Cross chain cross chain
standards  don't remember the exact
standards don't remember the exact
number of it  but U yeah you can check
number of it but U yeah you can check
their their work  yeah they have
their their work yeah they have
really good good stuff there yeah okay
great any any other questions let's see
I think we got H there's only one I
skipped was what is the expected Cadence
of releases for for the library
yeah I answered that right now in chat
but let me say it from here as well we
are  we are we will try to have a
are we are we will try to have a
monthly release
schedule the keyword here is trying but
we will do our
best okay
great let's
see any any other
questions I think we we got  I think
questions I think we we got I think
we got quite a quite a few questions
that were outstanding from from from our
last session where we we were not really
provide able to provide good answers I
think we got got all of that covered so
it it was really great to to have you
have you both on on on this call and
and I think I I'm super excited about
what what this means for the developer
experience on on on stellar and  I
experience on on on stellar and I
can't wait to see what people are
building using  using the open sein
building using using the open sein
Library  any any final words from your
Library any any final words from your
guys yeah just  yeah thanks thanks a
guys yeah just yeah thanks thanks a
lot for for having us  it was  it
lot for for having us it was it
was a pleasure for us  also to thanks
was a pleasure for us also to thanks
for all the questions and yeah don't
yeah don't hesitate to to Ping us on
Discord
and yeah chat there about  about
and yeah chat there about about
whatever you you think   yeah
whatever you you think yeah
yeah it's it's important so that we we
build a a great tools for the whole web
system so yeah thank you and in addition
to that  please feel free to open up
to that please feel free to open up
any issues for the features you want to
say or bugs you want to report or just
questions you want to ask we are also
pretty active on GitHub and it's a
public repository so feel free to
interact with us from GitHub as
well great thank you so much for joining
and  maybe we will do a follow-up
and maybe we will do a follow-up
session  at a later time  this was
session at a later time this was
great love the demo love to pick your
brains on on these topics so thank you
again for joining and thank you for
everyone who  who listened in here
everyone who who listened in here
thank you and see you next week bye by
right thank you